Adds ZSTD and ZSTD_NO_DICT codecs to core (out of sandbox) (#4421)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/index-apis/create-index.md

index.load_fixed_bitset_filters_eagerly | Whether OpenSearch should pre-load cached filters. Available options are `true` and `false`. Default is `true`.
index.hidden | Whether the index should be hidden. Hidden indexes are not returned as part of queries that have wildcards. Available options are `true` and `false`. Default is `false`.

### Dynamic index Settings

Setting | Description
:--- | :---
index.number_of_replicas | The number of replica shards each primary shard should have. For example, if you have 4 primary shards and set `index.number_of_replicas` to 3, the index has 12 replica shards. Default is 1.
index.auto_expand_replicas | Whether the cluster should automatically add replica shards based on the number of data nodes. Specify a lower bound and upper limit (for example, 0-9), or `all` for the upper limit. For example, if you have 5 data nodes and set `index.auto_expand_replicas` to 0-3, then the cluster does not automatically add another replica shard. However, if you set this value to `0-all` and add 2 more nodes for a total of 7, the cluster will expand to now have 6 replica shards. Default is disabled.

> index.codec |  Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. Available values are: `default', 'best_compression`, `zstd' and `zstd_no_dict`. Two new codecs are introduced in OpenSearch 2.9: `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting `index.codec.compression_level` which is not available for other codecs. For information about each setting, see [Index codec settomgs](#index-codec-settings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
index.codec |  Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. Available values are: `default', 'best_compression`, `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. Two new codecs are introduced in OpenSearch 2.9: `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting `index.codec.compression_level` which is not available for other codecs. For information about each setting, see [Index codec settomgs](#index-codec-settings).
```

> index.codec |  Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. Available values are: `default', 'best_compression`, `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. Two new codecs are introduced in OpenSearch 2.9: `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting `index.codec.compression_level` which is not available for other codecs. For information about each setting, see [Index codec settomgs](#index-codec-settings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
index.codec |  Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. Available values are: `default', 'best_compression`, `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. Two new codecs are introduced in OpenSearch 2.9: `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting `index.codec.compression_level` which is not available for other codecs. For information about each setting, see [Index codec settings](#Index-codec-settings).
```

index.number_of_shards | The number of primary shards in the index. Default is 1.
index.number_of_routing_shards | The number of routing shards used to split an index.
index.shard.check_on_startup | Whether the index's shards should be checked for corruption. Available options are `false` (do not check for corruption), `checksum` (check for physical corruption), and `true` (check for both physical and logical corruption). Default is `false`.
index.codec |  Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. Available values are:

> * `default` - This codec employs the 'LZ4' algorithm with a preset dictionary, which prioritizes performance over compression ratio. It offers faster indexing and search operations when compared with 'best_compression', but may result in larger index/shard sizes. If no codec is provided in the index settings, then 'LZ4'  is used as default algorithm for compression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `default` - This codec employs the `LZ4` algorithm with a preset dictionary, which prioritizes performance over compression ratio. It offers faster indexing and search operations when compared with `best_compression`, but may result in larger index/shard sizes. If no codec is provided in the index settings, then `LZ4`  is used as default algorithm for compression.
```

> * `best_compression` -  This codec utilizes 'zlib' as an underlying algorithm for compression. It achieves high compression ratios resulting in smaller index sizes. However, this may incur additional CPU usage during operations on the index and subsequently may result in high indexing and search latencies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `best_compression` -  This codec utilizes `zlib` as an underlying algorithm for compression. It achieves high compression ratios resulting in smaller index sizes. However, this may incur additional CPU usage during operations on the index and subsequently may result in high indexing and search latencies. 
```

> * `zstd` - This codec uses the ['Zstandard' compression algorithm](https://github.com/facebook/zstd), which provides a good balance between compression ratio and speed. It provides significant compression comparable to 'best_compression' codec with reasonable CPU usage and improved indexing/search performance comparable to 'default' codec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `zstd` - This codec uses the [`Zstandard` compression algorithm](https://github.com/facebook/zstd), which provides a good balance between compression ratio and speed. It provides significant compression comparable to `best_compression` codec with reasonable CPU usage and improved indexing/search performance comparable to `default` codec.
```

> * `zstd_no_dict` This codec is similar to 'zstd' but excludes the dictionary compression feature. It provides faster indexing and search operations compared to 'zstd' at the expense of a slightly larger index size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `zstd_no_dict` This codec is similar to `zstd` but excludes the dictionary compression feature. It provides faster indexing and search operations compared to `zstd` at the expense of a slightly larger index size.
```

> 'zstd' and 'zstd_no_dict' are the new codecs introduced in OpenSearch v2.9.0. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting 'index.codec.compression_level' which is not available for other codecs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`zstd` and `zstd_no_dict` are the new codecs introduced in OpenSearch v2.9.0. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting `index.codec.compression_level` which is not available for other codecs. 
```

index.number_of_shards | The number of primary shards in the index. Default is 1.
index.number_of_routing_shards | The number of routing shards used to split an index.
index.shard.check_on_startup | Whether the index's shards should be checked for corruption. Available options are `false` (do not check for corruption), `checksum` (check for physical corruption), and `true` (check for both physical and logical corruption). Default is `false`.

> index.codec | The compression type to use to compress stored data. Available values are `default` (optimizes for retrieval speed) and `best_compression` (optimizes for better compression at the expense of speed, leading to smaller data sizes on disk), zstd and zstd_no_dict (optimizes for better compression alongside retrieval speed). The major difference between zstd variants is, zstd inherently creates a dictionary with the data being indexed, and uses it for compression with a minor trade off on indexing speed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
index.codec | The compression type to use to compress stored data. Available values are `default`, which optimizes for retrieval speed, `best_compression`, which optimizes for better compression at the expense of speed, leading to smaller data sizes on disk. `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict` optimizes for better compression alongside retrieval speed. `zstd` creates a dictionary with the data being indexed and uses it for compression with a minor trade off on indexing speed. `zstd_no_dict` does not create a dictionary, leading to faster indexing speeds.
```

> index.codec | The compression type to use to compress stored data. Available values are `default`, which optimizes for retrieval speed, `best_compression`, which optimizes for better compression at the expense of speed, leading to smaller data sizes on disk. `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict` optimizes for better compression alongside retrieval speed. `zstd` creates a dictionary with the data being indexed and uses it for compression with a minor trade off on indexing speed. `zstd_no_dict` does not create a dictionary, leading to faster indexing speeds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
index.codec | The compression type to use to compress stored data. Available values are `default`, which optimizes for retrieval speed, and `best_compression`, which optimizes for better compression at the expense of speed, leading to smaller data sizes on disk. Alternatively, you can use `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict` to optimize for better compression and retrieval speed. `zstd` creates a dictionary with the data being indexed, uses that for compression, and has a minor trade-off on indexing speed. `zstd_no_dict` does not create a dictionary, leading to faster indexing speeds.
```

> index.codec | The compression type to use to compress stored data. Available values are `default`, which optimizes for retrieval speed, and `best_compression`, which optimizes for better compression at the expense of speed, leading to smaller data sizes on disk. Alternatively, you can use `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict` to optimize for better compression and retrieval speed. `zstd` creates a dictionary with the data being indexed, uses that for compression, and has a minor trade-off on indexing speed. `zstd_no_dict` does not create a dictionary, leading to faster indexing speeds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
index.codec |  Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. Available values are:
* `default` - This codec employs the 'LZ4' algorithm with a preset dictionary, which prioritizes performance over compression ratio. It offers faster indexing and search operations when compared with 'best_compression', but may result in larger index/shard sizes. If no codec is provided in the index settings, then 'LZ4'  is used as default algorithm for compression.
* `best_compression` -  This codec utilizes 'zlib' as an underlying algorithm for compression. It achieves high compression ratios resulting in smaller index sizes. However, this may incur additional CPU usage during operations on the index and subsequently may result in high indexing and search latencies. 
* `zstd` - This codec uses the ['Zstandard' compression algorithm](https://github.com/facebook/zstd), which provides a good balance between compression ratio and speed. It provides significant compression comparable to 'best_compression' codec with reasonable CPU usage and improved indexing/search performance comparable to 'default' codec.
* `zstd_no_dict` This codec is similar to 'zstd' but excludes the dictionary compression feature. It provides faster indexing and search operations compared to 'zstd' at the expense of a slightly larger index size.

'zstd' and 'zstd_no_dict' are the new codecs introduced in OpenSearch v2.9.0. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting 'index.codec.compression_level' which is not available for other codecs. 
{: .note}
```

:--- | :---
index.number_of_replicas | The number of replica shards each primary shard should have. For example, if you have 4 primary shards and set `index.number_of_replicas` to 3, the index has 12 replica shards. Default is 1.
index.auto_expand_replicas | Whether the cluster should automatically add replica shards based on the number of data nodes. Specify a lower bound and upper limit (for example, 0-9), or `all` for the upper limit. For example, if you have 5 data nodes and set `index.auto_expand_replicas` to 0-3, then the cluster does not automatically add another replica shard. However, if you set this value to `0-all` and add 2 more nodes for a total of 7, the cluster will expand to now have 6 replica shards. Default is disabled.

> index.codec |  Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. Available values are: `default', 'best_compression`, `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. Two new codecs are introduced in OpenSearch 2.9: `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting `index.codec.compression_level` which is not available for other codecs. For information about each setting, see [Index codec settings](#Index-codec-settings).

Author: Can we add a line over here that index.codec settings cannot be updated in real-time.
Similarly, should we add index.codec.compression_level also over here in dynamic settings, with its information? Also index.codec.compression_level can also not be updated at real time.

:--- | :---
index.number_of_replicas | The number of replica shards each primary shard should have. For example, if you have 4 primary shards and set `index.number_of_replicas` to 3, the index has 12 replica shards. Default is 1.
index.auto_expand_replicas | Whether the cluster should automatically add replica shards based on the number of data nodes. Specify a lower bound and upper limit (for example, 0-9), or `all` for the upper limit. For example, if you have 5 data nodes and set `index.auto_expand_replicas` to 0-3, then the cluster does not automatically add another replica shard. However, if you set this value to `0-all` and add 2 more nodes for a total of 7, the cluster will expand to now have 6 replica shards. Default is disabled.

> index.codec |  Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. Available values are: `default', 'best_compression`, `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. Two new codecs are introduced in OpenSearch 2.9: `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting `index.codec.compression_level` which is not available for other codecs. For information about each setting, see [Index codec settings](#Index-codec-settings). This setting is optional, and cannot be updated dynamically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
index.codec | Determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. This setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the index operations. Available values are `default', 'best_compression`, `zstd`, and `zstd_no_dict`. Two new codecs are introduced in OpenSearch 2.9: `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict`. They provide an option to configure the compression level as an index setting, `index.codec.compression_level`, that is not available for other codecs. For information about each setting, see [Index codec settings](#Index-codec-settings). This setting is optional and cannot be updated dynamically.
```

> index.codec.compression_level | The compression level setting provides a trade-off between compression ratio and speed. A higher compression level results in a higher compression ratio (lesser storage size) with a trade-off on speed, that is, slower compression and decompression speeds (slower indexing and search latencies). Currently, `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict` supports compression levels from 1 to 6. Similar to `index.codec`, `index.codec.compression_level` is an optional index setting. The default compression level is 3 if not provided. This setting cannot be updated dynamically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
index.codec.compression_level | The compression level setting provides a trade-off between compression ratio and speed. A higher compression level results in a higher compression ratio (less storage size) with a trade-off on speed, that is, slower compression and decompression speeds (slower indexing and search latencies). Currently, `zstd` and `zstd_no_dict` support compression levels from 1 to 6. Similar to `index.codec`, `index.codec.compression_level` is an optional index setting. The default compression level is 3 if not provided. This setting cannot be updated dynamically.
```

index.routing.rebalance.enable | Enables shard rebalancing for the index. Available options are `all` (allow rebalancing for all shards), `primaries` (allow rebalancing only for primary shards), `replicas` (allow rebalancing only for replicas), and `none` (do not allow rebalancing). Default is `all`.
index.gc_deletes | Amount of time to retain a deleted document's version number. Default is `60s`.
index.default_pipeline | The default ingest node pipeline for the index. If the default pipeline is set and the pipeline does not exist, then index requests fail. The pipeline name `_none` specifies that the index does not have an ingest pipeline.
index.final_pipeline | The final ingest node pipeline for the index. If the final pipeline is set and the pipeline does not exist, then index requests fail. The pipeline name `_none` specifies that the index does not have an ingest pipeline.

> #### Index codec settings 

Author: As discussed offline, we will add an additional page to explain the index.codec settings around the time of release. 
This information might be redundant post the addition of that page, how do you suggest we should proceed @hdhalter

Author: Calling it out here: We might need to update the [documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/snapshot-restore/#conflicts-and-compatibility) related to snapshot, and we can check if we can add something over here at [best practices for performance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/bp.html#bp-perf)

Reviewer: We need to add more information about indexing, in general, and will add more information to support these options after the release.

Reviewer: Can you please provide me an endpoint so I can test the code samples on Monday? Thanks!

Reviewer: @sarthakaggarwal97 - The documentation related to snapshots has been updated. The link above to 'best practices' is part of the Service documentation and needs to be handled by @chatnish.

Author: > Can you please provide me an endpoint so I can test the code samples on Monday? Thanks!

Do you want a domain where you can test these code samples?

index.routing.rebalance.enable | Enables shard rebalancing for the index. Available options are `all` (allow rebalancing for all shards), `primaries` (allow rebalancing only for primary shards), `replicas` (allow rebalancing only for replicas), and `none` (do not allow rebalancing). Default is `all`.
index.gc_deletes | Amount of time to retain a deleted document's version number. Default is `60s`.
index.default_pipeline | The default ingest node pipeline for the index. If the default pipeline is set and the pipeline does not exist, then index requests fail. The pipeline name `_none` specifies that the index does not have an ingest pipeline.
index.final_pipeline | The final ingest node pipeline for the index. If the final pipeline is set and the pipeline does not exist, then index requests fail. The pipeline name `_none` specifies that the index does not have an ingest pipeline.

#### Index codec settings 

> The `index.codec` setting of an OpenSearch index determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. The setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the operations on the index. OpenSearch provides support for four different codecs that can be used for compressing the stored fields. Each codec offers different trade-offs between compression ratio (storage size) and indexing performance (speed). The available codecs are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `index.codec` setting of an OpenSearch index determines how the index’s stored fields are compressed and stored on the disk. The setting impacts the size of the index shards and the performance of the index operations. OpenSearch provides support for four different codecs that can be used for compressing the stored fields. Each codec offers different trade-offs between compression ratio (storage size) and indexing performance (speed). The available codecs are:
```

> * `default` - This codec employs the `LZ4` algorithm with a preset dictionary, which prioritizes performance over compression ratio. It offers faster indexing and search operations when compared with `best_compression`, but may result in larger index/shard sizes. If no codec is provided in the index settings, then `LZ4`  is used as default algorithm for compression.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `default` -- This codec employs the `LZ4` algorithm with a preset dictionary, which prioritizes performance over compression ratio. It offers faster indexing and search operations when compared with `best_compression` but may result in larger index/shard sizes. If no codec is provided in the index settings, then `LZ4`  is used as the default algorithm for compression.
```

> * `best_compression` -  This codec utilizes `zlib` as an underlying algorithm for compression. It achieves high compression ratios resulting in smaller index sizes. However, this may incur additional CPU usage during operations on the index and subsequently may result in high indexing and search latencies. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `best_compression` -- This codec utilizes `zlib` as an underlying algorithm for compression. It achieves high compression ratios resulting in smaller index sizes. However, this may incur additional CPU usage during index operations and may subsequently result in high indexing and search latencies. 
```

> * `zstd` - This codec uses the [`Zstandard` compression algorithm](https://github.com/facebook/zstd), which provides a good balance between compression ratio and speed. It provides significant compression comparable to `best_compression` codec with reasonable CPU usage and improved indexing/search performance comparable to `default` codec.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `zstd` -- This codec uses the [`Zstandard` compression algorithm](https://github.com/facebook/zstd), which provides a good balance between compression ratio and speed. It provides significant compression comparable to the `best_compression` codec with reasonable CPU usage and improved indexing/search performance comparable to the `default` codec.
```

> * `zstd_no_dict` This codec is similar to `zstd` but excludes the dictionary compression feature. It provides faster indexing and search operations compared to `zstd` at the expense of a slightly larger index size.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `zstd_no_dict` -- This codec is similar to `zstd` but excludes the dictionary compression feature. It provides faster indexing and search operations compared to `zstd` at the expense of a slightly larger index size.
```

> The setting of an index can be updated using a PUT request. Here's an example using the curl commands to close an index, update the settings, and open an index.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Index settings can be updated using a PUT request. Here's an example using the curl commands to close an index, update the settings, and open an index:
```
